# Summary

This repository contains an analysis report, providing the data and 
statistical analyses for an experiment by Martijn Bart and others on 
spiculous skeleton formation in the freshwater sponge E.fluviatilis under 
hypergravity conditions. A paper describing the experiment that is reported 
here has been submitted to PeerJ in August 2018.
The idea of the experiment was to investigate to what degree large g-forces 
prevent sponges to grow (i.e. expand their surface area and form oscula) and 
take up dissolved food (i.e. amino acids); and whether g-forces affect skeleton 
and osculum formation in interaction with additional feeding.

With this report it should be possible to get a basic understanding of the 
data that were collected in the experiment and follow the statistical analyses, 
but it is not meant to be studied independently from the paper. 
The paper provides contextual information as well as relevant details about 
sponge biology, accurate definitions of the various terms, and details of how 
the observations were exactly obtained.

# Viewing or downloading

The html-file (sponge_hypergravity_report.html) is self-contatained: it holds 
all the data that was generated by the experiment as well as analysis code.
You can view it online [here](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/emielvanloon/sponge_hypergravity/master/sponge_hypergravity_report.html?token=AKieXgUASZw4TIrMe-cZz1_vmI9zwBaSks5bi4OowA%3D%3D)
But also [download](https://github.com/emielvanloon/sponge_hypergravity/archive/master.zip) 
the archive and view it offline in an internetbrowser.

The html-file is generated from the Rmarkdown file sponge_hypergravity_report.Rmd 
which is also included in this repo.


